Emi was holding onto the railing as tightly as she could. Still clutching the flat and folded leaflet she had snatched on her way out of Memorial Plaza in one hand and balancing her weight with the other as the cabin wobbled over bumpy turbulence. She glanced quickly with focused attention at the printed photo of the monument whenever the hexa-mobile jolted down to a slower pace and started moving fast again. 

What a rich and contrasting planet we all had lived in. Luminous and ethereal. Peaceful and full of colors. In comparison our current world seemed bleak and one dimensional like pale drawings on a flat canvas sketched in charcoal. Like remnants of burnt organic material squeezed down and neatly fixed into fine lines. 

“This world is a monochromatic and deflated arrangement of sorts.” Emi’s grandfather had mentioned numerous times.

She still remembered trips to the desert she had taken as a child with her Awki. Oh how she cherished those moments and wished her grandfather  was still with her. 

Awki had showed Emi ancient petroglyphs etched in rocks and caves while on their many hikes through the desert. 

“Messages across time and space”, he had told her. 

“Our Elders astutely carved archetypes in the form of pictograms into the rock and left us a record of their long journeys and  prophecies... and of the spiral creation.”

“These same archetypes can be found carved into rocks all over the world.”

“Prophecy Rock, Oraibi. Sego Canyon, Utah. Val Camonica, Italy. Queretaro, Mexico. Los Tayos, Ecuador. Tassili n'Ajjer, Sahara Desert, North Africa. Wandjina petroglyphs from Kimberley, Australia. India, Java, Indonesia, Ethiopia, Algeria, Tanzania, West Africa, and Dogon cave paintings of the Nommo who came in huge ships from the sky; to name a few.”

The list was extensive.

"Look there! Do you see it?"

"Focus there! On the underside of that huge boulder straight up ahead."

“See the spiral glyph up there?”

“The spiral form is not coincidental! It’s mathematical. Logarithmic in nature!” Awki was yelling as they both sprinted ahead wildy. Their leg muscles already burning with anticipation. 

She could feel the energy pulling her body intensely towards the glyph.  The spiral curve emanating from a single point on the rock, moving her farther and farther away from Awki as it revolved around her center point and tugged away at her core. Her feet now dashing at top speed like the paws of a lioness in motion. Emi was light and graceful.

Awki knew in his heart she was born to run.

By the time he caught up with Emi, she was already tracing the spirals on the rock with her fingers. Her hands seemed to flow back and forth in constant circular motion perpetually in sync with the universe. Her eyes gazed with a soft focus.
 
“Did the Elders build the pyramids too?” Emi asked. 

“The ones in Egypt do you mean?”

“Yeah. Those.”

“The pyramids in Egypt were built by the Watchers using primitive technology. They basically casted each block in situ. They were proficient at linear algebra and trigonometry not unlike their predecessors the Mayans but not as spiritually gifted.”

“They showed up later in our timeline in the form of Egyptian elites and tried to enslave humanity but weren’t successful. The Elders are much more ancient than the Watchers and the Mayans.”

“What did the Elders build then?” Emi wanted to know.

Awki smiled. “Look to giant structures with impressive gateways scattered around the globe.”

“Look for the ones built with monumental proportions. Some were assembled on platforms, courts, or artificial mounds like the Gateway to The Sun. Most of these structures are still buried deep underground.”

“Tiwanaku!” Emi’s eyes were attentive and wide open now.

She was already discerning and actively committing Awki’s descriptions of places to memory. She always treated it as a game: match the description to the name place in under 3 seconds. 

“One, two… three!”

Three seconds was the longest time Awki would go without explaining.

“Search the area around Tiwanaku for huge blocks of stone bound so tightly to each other with internal metal alloy staples. Not a single pin can penetrate the joints.”

“There are tablets with symbols there we cannot decipher to this day. They may be algorithms,  scientific formulas, or clues for the survival of our civilization. ” 

Awki was getting ahead of himself and paused for a bit. 

“We just don’t know for sure.” He continued.

“For this reason the Elders, though highly advanced, decided to carve basic archetypes into rocks. They hoped humanity would understand simpler concepts.”

“They hoped we would get the message they laid out for us hidden in plain sight.”

He always felt he was coming close to cracking the code on many ancient artifacts and tablets previously undecipherable and tossed aside as “art” or completely dismissed by mainstream archeology. Most of these objects seemingly out of place from our timeline were not. Perhaps there was another timeline.

In any case, a few more jumps and he should be able to complete his mission of solving one of humanity’s oldest mysteries or perhaps completely rewriting human history.

A few more jumps and he would finally decode the Elders’ Pictogram language as well as master Ancient Hebrew, Classical Latin, Cuneiform, and Proto-Sanskrit. 

“The functional programming language of the ancients.” 

“The complete picture.” He thought to himself.
